Higurashi When They Cry - Ch.1 Onikakushi

...Somebody has been apologizing for a while now.

I wonder what she's apologizing for.
It felt wrong to eavesdrop, so I tried to ignore it.

It had been a while since I'd last went to the city. I only returned to attend the funeral of a relative.
Even though I'd lived there until last month, I found the bustle of the city to be overwhelming.

Those skyscrapers and the multi-lane roads.
The melodious cacophony of the crosswalk.
Even the campaign speeches blaring in front of the station left nostalgic.

The place where I live now isn't nearly as lively.

There's only the chirping of locusts and the babbling of brooks.And the cry of the higurashi-the evening cicadas.

Rather than making me feel lonely, that quietness had begun to instill a sense of serenity.

There is nothing where I'm living now.
I don't just mean there aren't any burger joints.
There aren't even vending machines.
No music stores, no restaurants... and no arcades.
Even an ice cream parlor would be unlikely.

The nearest town has some stuff like that, but it's an hour away by bike.

But come to think of it, it wasn't really a big deal.

There were music stores and arcades and ice cream parlors, but it wasn't like I ever hung out at any of them.

I had lived in the city for ten years and never once been to an ice cream parlor.

...I should have gone at least once.
It's only now that I'm starting to regret that a little.

...Somebody is still apologizing.

Who is she apologizing to?
She's apologized so much, so just forgive her already.
There's no reason anyone should ever need to apologize so much.

I started to feel a bit annoyed at whoever was refusing to forgive her.

No matter how bad the mistake, there's nothing that can't be forgiven.
There's no such thing as an irreparable mistake.
You just need to be more carefull next time.

...She's still apologizing, even now.

Then... has she really done something that can't be fixed?

I have no idea what she's done, but if it can't be fixed, then that's all the more reason to forgive her.
No matter how much she apologizes, nothing will change.

But even so, she keeps apologizing in such a heartbreaking voice...

Hey, you. The one she's apologizing to...
Why don't you just go ahead and forgive her?

She's apologizing... in such a pathetic voice...

"Keiichi, we're almost there. Wake up."
I was finally roused from my nap by my father's prodding.
It seemed the train had reached its final stop.

We'd spent hours riding everything from the bullet train to the local routes.
It was hard to believe that the landscape beyond the window and the city I was in half a day ago were in the same country.
No...that they were even from the same era.

From there, we'd take a car deeper into the mountains.

Past where the dense forest encroaching on the mountain road suddenly opened up...

There, where I live now. Hinamizawa.

Even though we were approaching summer, the morning air still had a frigid bite.
Although, in exchange, you could fill your lungs up with crisp, clean air.

Flipping open the window, I was greeted with a verdant expanse.
Noting but trees.
The neighboring house was far away on the other side, so I was probably the only open enjoying that view and that air.


I filled my lungs with another deep breath.
Since I started living in Hinamizawa, I learned that even air had its own taste.

I quickly finished getting ready for school and headed downstairs for breakfast.

My mother was the only one there. My father was nowhere to be seen.
He was probably up working until the early morning.

Dad had a rather unconventional job as a painter.
It's such a laid-back profession.
Get up when you want, sleep when you want, and work when you want.

I was so jealous of that easy-going lifestyle, I even wrote for school that I wanted be a painter when I grew up.
Dad was ecstatic about that.
It was just because it looked easy. I'd never tell him that, though.

Mom laid breakfast out on the table.
Seaweed, pickled vegetables, raw egg, and grilled salmon.

My mom was such a good cook, it was scary.
A perfect, immaculate, ideal breakfast.
Unlike my dad, who didn't even know the meaning of the word "schedule", my mom never squandered any time or effort.

She hummed a little tune as she brought over the miso soup. It seemed like she was in a good mood today.

"I'm so happy you've been waking up early since we moved here, Keiichi."
"If I don't wake up early, I won't have time to eat breakfast."
I thought I was being cute, responding with a wise-crack after being praised for being good.

"Full bowl of rice? Or will half be enough?"
"Pile it on"
First, I savored the steaming hot rice with the seaweed. After that, I covered it with the egg.
Between bites of rice, I enjoyed the crunch of the pickles.
Not bad at all. Excellent, as usual.

Watching me clean my plate, Mon gave me a warm smile.
"I'm so happy you haven't skipped breakfast ever since we moved here, Keiichi."

I was not a morning person when we lived in the city.
I slept right until the last minute before school and rarely ate breakfast.

Boycotting the breakfast Mom made me each morning... that was probably the only way I could protest being forced to attend cram school.

...I guess that was what you'd call my rebellious phase.
I wouldn't so much as look at the breakfast she woke up early every day to make.
If I could go back in time, I'd slap myself.

Mindful of the time, Mom rushed me along with a wide grin.
"Isn't it about time to meet up with Rena-chan? Hurry, hurry."
Mom really seemed to enjoy the fact that her son was going to school with a gril.

Rena is one of my classmates.
She really loves looking after people, coming to meet me every day without fail.

The way I looked at it, a guy my age walking to school with a girl was just lame.
But, well, keeping a classmate waiting for me every day wouldn't be very considerate.

...Seriously, though, how long does Rena wait there for me every morning...?

Taking one last gulp of miso soup, I raced for the door.

"Please thank Rena-chan for the pickles~!"
Come ti think of it, those pickles weren't store-bought, were they?
...If I'd known that, I would have savored them a bit more!
"Mornin!"

"Keiichi-kun~! Good morning~!"
Her cheerful greeting was as fresh as the morning itself.
"You're always so early. You should try sleeping in sometime."

"If I sleep in, I'll keep you waiting."
...She's so conscientious, and such a good person.
"If that ever happens, I'll just leave you behind."
"Keiichi-kun, you're so cold. I wait for you all the time..."
"I'll leave you in the dust. Without looking back."
"Why are you so mean? ...Why?"
Rena had a slightly troubled look on her face.
Toying with her was rather fun because of how quickly her mood changed.

"I'kidding. I'd wait for you."
With those words, Rena seemed to relax.
Her face flushed bright red.

"...Ah...Th-Thank you..."
"I'd wait forever until you came, Rena. No matter how long."
"...Ah-ah, ah... ...For... Forever..."
Rena turned bright red, stram rising from her head as her brain short-circuited.
She's especially weak to this sort of talk.
It's quite rare to find someone this fun to tease.

"Have you ever read a romance novel, Rena...?"
"...Huh... ...Ah ...I haven't. N-Never read any before."
From that response. I gathered she was interested in them but was too embarrassed to actually buy one.

I couldn't imagine what would happen if she did read one.
She'd probably turn red and pass out...

"Oh, yeah, message from Mom. She says thanks for the pickles."
"I-It was nothing. You're welcome~. How were they? Not too salty?"

They weren't that salty.
Actually, they had a pretty light flavor to them.

...It would have been fine to just be honest and say they were good, but apparently I couldn't be that forthright.

"...I'd like to ask something before that. Were you the one who pickled them, Rena? Or was it your mom?"
"Huh? ...Huh? Why do you ask? Were... Were they too salty...?"
Her attitude completely changed as she began to panic frantically.
"Was it you, Rena? Or was it your mom?"
"...Wh-Why are you asking who made them? ...Why!?"
"Depending on who made them, my opinion of them might change drastically."
"...Huh, huh uh...!?"

She counted frantically on her fingers, trying to remember the amount of salt she'd used to pickle them.
...It wasn't like I was trying to tease her, but I couldn't stop myself.
Guys who take pleasure in this kind of thing are probably the worst. ...Guys like me.
Rena nervously opened and closed her mouth over and over, trying  to muster a response.

"...It-It was me..."
"Delicious."
"Huh?"
"Pretty good, just like the last ones. They went perfectly with the rice."
Her face went bright red again. She was completely spacing out.
It truly was a lot of fun to tease her.

I pray that Rena nerver gets taken advantage of by some lowlife.
Keep at it, Rena. I'll train you until you handle it like the average person! ...Or so I decided for myself.

"Let's go! If we keep Mion waiting, we'll never hear the end of it."
Seeing as she'd just keep spacing out otherwise, I called Rena back to reality so we could make our way to school.

This strange, easily flustered girl is Rena Ryuugu.
I've only konwn her for about a month, but I've come to realize it's not just her name that's strange.

"Mii-cha~n! Good morning~?"
Coming up to the next rendezvous point, we saw another person waiting for us. Noticing us, she waved.

"Ah, finally, finally. You two are late~!"
"Usually, you're the one who's late!"

In sharp contrast to the diligent Rena, this one marched to the beat of her own drum.
She's Mion Sonozaki.
For what it's worth, she's our senior and head of the class.

"Morning Rena. And it's been a while, Kei-chan! How many years?"
"I was only off two days!"

"Ah haha! You don't say. You were so much cuter back then!"

Mion's gaze started at my chest then straight donw, focusing on the point between my legs.
...So she was saying it was my crotch that was cuter back then.

Before you ask, just to be clear, I've never actually tried to show it to her.

"I've grown quite splendidly. You'd be surprised."
"Not only is he bigger, but he has a little moustache now~☆"
"Beging so *engorged* with energy every morning is quite a problem, though. I'll introduce you next time, so be sure to greet him properly."
"Don't say 'next time'. Right now is just fine. How about letting the little guy get a breath of fresh morning air?"

I don't think I've ever heard talk so dirty you could smell it fouling up the morning aire before.
Mion sure does act like an old man sometimes.
"Gotcha. Time for the big reveal. Hope you don't regret it...!!"

As my hand reached for my fly, Rena began to ramble in a near panic.
"...Hey, hey hey... What are you talking about? What're you talking about!? What're you talking about...!!"

Red-faced and flustered, Rena tried to play dumb, but it was obvious she knew exactly what we were talking about.

"How was it? Seeing the city again."
Mion switched gears, dropping the dirty talk and changing the topoc to something more befitting the pleasant morning.

"I only went for a funeral. I didn't have much time."
"So yeah! Did you look for iiit? ...That thing I asked for?"
"You're... not listening... at all. I just came back from a funeral! I didn't have any time to look around in toy stores!"
"Tsk tsk tsk. Toy stores and hobby shops are completely different, you konw? It's really difficult to get western stuff around here, after all."

"is this about games again, Mii-chan?"
Mion nodded proudly as Rena giggled.

"Yep! I wanted Kei-chan to bring me back a 'west port' catalogue, you see."

"West port" was short for "western imported games."
Using that abbreviation did make it shound pretty geeky.

"You can just get them to send you one in the mail, can't you?"
"Well, guess I have to now. I'm going to get another game full of hot action!"
"...Th-This time, I'd like a game that's easy to understand..."

Mion is a board and card game enthusiast, and I hear she's collected quite a lot of different ones.
According to Rena, Mion's room has kind of become a museum for domestic and foreign games.

"If there's a game you think I'd understand, let me play too."
"Heh... of course! If Kei-chan is up for it. I should warn you though, we're pretty tough."
"Just what I want. I play all sorts of games. I don't intend to lose!"
"...Whoa...Then we'll let you in the group this game, I guess. ...I guess!"
Bristling with joy from head to toe, Rena looked back and forth between me and Mion.
Mion gave her an affirmative wink, and her expression perked up even further.

"I thought boys preferred playing outside more, so... I figured you wouldn't want to."
Rena laughed happily.

From such a friendly conversation, you wouldn't think I had moved here less than a month ago.
I understood that they did all they could to make a transfer student like me feel at home.

I'll have to try harder to fit in, so they won't feel like they have to try to make me feel welcome.
I felt like if I acted a bit more open than I ususlly am, it should probably be about right for this place.

Hinamizawa was a realy small village. Not only was there only one school, but there was only one class.
That class encompasses all different grades and ages.
There are about 30 students at different levels, and they all study in the same class.

I'm told that, long ago, there used to be a bigger school building and they had actual separate classes.
However, it seems something happened that made it become a single class, and now it stayed that way out of tradition.
I was shocked at first, but humans adapt pretty quickly. I've already gotten quite used to it.

The sound of children playing started right from the morning.
With such a lively mood, it felt more like a kindergarten than a proper school, not that that was a bad thing.

Mion, who had been walking in front of us up until then, suddenly let me take the lead.